find | head

Find and list all files on your current 
directory.

apt search [query]

to find a package

locate [query]

find all path names contains a pharse

locate [file]

find all files with filename

which [command]

find the path of an exexutable

grep pattern [files]

searching for pattern in files

find / -atime 40

to find all the files, which are accessed 
40 days back

find / -cmin -60

find change file in last 1 hour

find / -mmin -60

find modified files in last 1 hour

find ~ -empty

find all empty files in home directory

find /root -name FindCommandExamples.txt

FindCommandExamples.txt in a current 
working directory.

find /tmp | head

Find all the files under /tmp directory. It 
lists out all files by default.

find / -iname findcommandexamples.txt

Find all the files whose name is 
FindCommandExamples.txt and contains both 
capital and small letters in / directory.

find . -type f -name "*.php"

Find all php files in a directory.

find . -type f -perm 0777 -print

Find all the files whose permissions are 
777.

find . -type f ! -perm 777 | head

Find all the files without permission 777.

find . -perm 0644 | head

Find all the SGID bit files whose 
permissions set to 644.

find / -perm 0551

Find all the Sticky Bit set files whose 
permission are 551.

find / -perm /u=r | head

Find all Read Only files

find / -type f -perm 0777 -print -exec 
chmod 644 {} \;

Find all 777 permission files and use chmod 
command to set permissions to 644.

find / -user root | head

To find all files that belongs to user root 
under / directory.

find / -group root | head

To find all files that belongs to group 
root under / directory.

find / -user root -iname "*.txt" | head

To find all .txt files of user root under / 
directory.

find / -mtime 50

To find all the files which are modified 50 
days back.

find / -mtime +50 -mtime -100 | head

To find all the files which are modified 
more than 50 days back and less than 100 
days.

find / -cmin -60 | head

To find all the files which are changed in 
last 1 hour.

find / -mmin -60

To find all the files which are modified in 
last 1 hour

find / -size 15M

To find all 15MB files, use.

find / -size +50M -size -100M

To find all the files which are greater 
than 50MB and less than 100MB.

find / -size +100M -exec rm -rf {} \;

To find all 100MB files and delete them 
using one single command.

find / -type f -name *.mp3 -size +10M -exec 
rm {} \;

Find all .mp3 files with more than 10MB and 
delete them using one single command.

touch [file name]

to create a file

mkdir [name]

to create a directory / folder

echo " your text " > [name]

create a text file write your words

tail -f [file name]

output the contents of file as it grows

less text_file

view a text file one screen at a time

ln -s [file name] link

create a symbolic link to file

mv [file1] [file2]

rename or move with rename name is'A' to 
rename'B'

more [file name]

output the contents of file

head [file name]

output the first 10 line of file

chmod

used to change the permissions

chmod +x [filename]

used to give permission(make ececutable) to 
a file,script like .py .sh .rb

chmod 771 [file name]

set file permission

chmod 777 [fiename]

give executable permissin to a file

chmod 777 *

give executable permission to all files

chmod +x *

set file permissions to all files,

du

Display directory space usage

df

display Disk Usages

cal

it show calender

cat /proc/meminfo

shows memory information.

w

Display, who is currently online

cat /proc/cpuinfo

shows cpu information

cat /proc/version

shows Information about Linux System

fingure username

shows information about a user

whoami

shows your login name

uname -a

used to display Kernal Information

date

show the current date & time

uptime

shows the system current uptime.

man command

shows manual a command

whereis app

shows possible location for an App

which app

shows which App will be Run by Default

free

Display Memory and swap usage.

man command

shows manual a command

kill

send signal to process

kill [PID]

This sends the TERM signal to the 
process.The TERM signal tells the process 
to please terminate.

kill -l

list all of the signals that are posssible 
to send with kill

lspci

shows PCI Devices

lsusb

shows USB Devices

lsblk

block devices in a tree-like format

curl ifconfig.me

to display external ip address

cat /var/log/boot.log

Bootlog information

reset

salvage a borked terminal

man ascii

quick access to the ascii table

getconf LONG_BIT

32 bits or 64 nits?

lsof -i

watch network service activity in real-time

echo "words" > name.sh

lsof -P -i -n

show apps that use internet connection at 
the moment

nc -v -l 80 < file.ext

shareing file through http 80 port

vim -x

add password protection to a file your 
editing in vim

man hier

show file system hierarchy

fuser -k filename

kills a process that is locking a file

cat /etc/issue

display which distro is installed

date -d@1234567890

convert seconds to humn readble format

curl wttr.in/india

nice weather forecast on your shell

ls -d */

list only the directories

script

make a log of a terminal session


